So now let's talk about AWS KMS,
which is a key management service of AWS.
So we've been using it a lot without knowing,
but anytime you hear encryption
when you have an AWS service,
it's most likely going to be KMS encryption.
The aim is that with this KMS service,
AWS is going to manage the encryption keys for us.
And that's great,
because that means that we have less things to do.
So KMS is, of course,
fully integrated with IAM for authorization,
and it gives us very easy ways to control access
to our data if it's encrypted with KMS.
The power of using AWS KMS is that you're able
to audit every single API call made to use your keys
through CloudTrail,
which is something the exam may test you on.
So on top of it,
KMS can be used seamlessly into most AWS services.
So for example, if you wanted to encrypt the data at rest
in an EBS volume, just enable the KMS integration.
Same for S3, same for RDS, same for SSM,
and same for pretty much all the services
that require encryption.
The idea is that with KMS, you can also use it yourself.
And if you have secrets data,
you never ever store them in plain text,
that means just as is.
Especially in your code.
So if you want to use KMS,
you can also use KMS through API calls.
You can use the AWS CLI or the SDK.
And that means that you can encrypt
whatever is a secret for you with a KMS key.
And then these encrypted secrets can be, for example,
stored in your code or in environment variables.
That is a much better pattern.
So now let's talk about the different types
of KMS keys available to you.
So now it's called a KMS key.
By the way, it used to be called
the KMS customer master key, but it was confusing
because there's also the customer managed keys
as we'll see in a second.
So now, we just talk about KMS keys.
So we have two types of KMS keys.
We have the symmetric KMS keys,
and that means there's only one single encrypted key
that is used to encrypt and decrypt data.
And so any service of AWS that is integrated
with KMS will use symmetric keys.
The idea is that when we create or use a KMS symmetric key,
then we never get access to the key itself, okay?
All we do is that we use the KMS API calls
to leverage and use that key.
The second kind of key available on KMS
are called asymmetric keys.
That means that you have two keys.
You have a public key that's used to encrypt data,
and a private key used to decrypt data.
So this is used when you have encrypt/decrypt,
or sign/verify type of operations.
And in that case,
you can download the public key out of KMS,
but you can use access the private key.
You can only use API calls
against to access the private key.
So the use cases for an asymmetric type of key
is when you want the encryption to be done outside
of your AWS cloud by users who cannot
or don't have access to the KMS API key.
In which case they will use the public key
to encrypt the data.
Send it over to you.
And you within your account,
you would use the private key of AWS to decrypt that data.
So within the world of KMS keys,
you have different types of KMS keys.
The first one are AWS owned keys.
They're free, and this is the kind of key you would use
when you use SSE-S3 type of encryption,
or SSC DynamoDB, where you have the option, for example,
that you choose a key owned by DynamoDB.
So these are not really KMS
because you don't really see them,
but they're types of encryption keys within AWS.
Then you have the AWS managed keys, and they're free,
and you will recognize them
because they start with AWS slash and then the service name.
For example, AWS/RDS or AWS/EBS,
or in this example, AWS/DynamoDB.
They're free and you can just use them as you please,
but only from within the service that it's assigned to.
Then you have your own customer managed keys
and their custom keys, and they cost you $1 per month.
And if you want to import them as well, you can import them,
and they cost you $1 per month.
KMS also has a pricing where you're going to pay
for each API call made to the KMS service,
which is about 3 cents per 10,000 API calls.
You also have automatic key rotation.
So if it's an AWS managed KMS key,
then it's automatic every one year.
And if it's a customer managed key,
you can enable automatic rotation and you set the period,
and you can also have on-demand rotation of your key.
And if it's imported KMS key,
then you can only manually rotate it.
And for this, you need to leverage an alias.
So KMS keys are scoped per region.
That means that if you have an EBS volume encrypted
with KMS key in a region, for example, EUS2,
then if you want to copy that to a different region,
we have to do several steps.
First of all, we have to take a snapshot of this EBS volume.
And if we take a snapshot from an encrypted snapshot,
then this snapshot itself will also be encrypted
with the same KMS key.
Then to copy the snapshot to another region,
we need to re-encrypt the snapshot using
a different KMS key.
And this is something AWS will do for you.
But the same KMS key cannot live in two regions.
So now we have an EBS snapshot,
it's encrypted with KMS with a different key,
and it lives in another region.
Now, we restore the snapshot
into its own EBS volume with KMS,
and it's KMS key B into the region AP southeast two.
Now, the other thing we need
to know about is KMS key policies.
So this is to control access to your KMS keys.
It's similar to an S3 bucket policy.
With a difference that if you don't have the KMS key policy
on your KMS key, then no one can access it.
So in that regards, we have two types of KMS key policies.
We have the default one,
and it's created if you don't provide
a specific custom KMS key policy.
And the idea is that the default allows
everyone in your account to access this key.
That means that if you have an IAM policy allowing a user
or role to access this key policy, you're good.
But if you want to have more specific controls over it,
you could use a KMS key policy that is custom.
In which you define the users,
the roles that can access your KMS key.
And you define who can administer the key.
And this is especially helpful
if you want to do cross account access for your KMS key,
because we can authorize another account to use our KMS key.
So when do we use this?
Well, for example,
if we wanted to copy an encrypted snapshots across accounts.
So we create a snapshot encrypted with our own KMS key,
and it's a customer managed key.
It must be that because we need
to attach a custom key policy.
And then we attach a KMS key policy
to authorize for cross account access.
It looks like this.
Then we share the encrypted snapshot
with the target account.
And then in the target account,
we create a copy of the snapshot
and we encrypt it with a different customer managed key
in that target account.
And then we can create a volume from the snapshot
in the target account, and we're done.
So that's a lot of information by KMS,
but let's go into hands-on
to hopefully learn a bit more about it.